feat: Add json_records, to_json_string, and json_concat UDFs (#8632)
confluentinc/ksql: docs/developer-guide/ksqldb-reference/scalar-functions.md

    `CREATE STREAM LOGS (LOG STRUCT<CLOUD STRING, APP STRING, INSTANCE INT>, ...) WITH (VALUE_FORMAT='JSON', ...)`

### `IS_JSON_STRING`

Since: 0.25.0

```sql
is_json_string(json_string) -> Boolean
```

Given a string, returns `true` if it can be parsed as a valid JSON value, `false` otherwise.

Examples:

```sql
is_json_string("[1, 2, 3]") => true
is_json_string("{}") => true
is_json_string("1") => true
is_json_string("\"abc\"") => true
is_json_string("null") => true
is_json_string("") => false
is_json_string("abc") => false
is_json_string(NULL) => false
```

### `JSON_RECORDS`

Since: 0.25.0

```sql

> json_records(json_string) -> Array<Struct<json_key:String, json_value:String>>

Reviewer: This may have already be covered earlier, but could this return a Map<Key,Key> instead?

Author: The discussion about return types is in the KLIP - https://github.com/confluentinc/ksql/pull/8550#discussion_r779937714. If you prefer, we can discuss it there with a wider audience.

Reviewer: Nice; after I started reviewing, I realized that there was a KLIP for this.  (And that I'm late to the party; thanks for the link!)

I'm not sure where the discussion should be between the two places.

Author: You are definitely not too late! We can continue the discussion in the KLIP or here. In my view, a `Struct` is a strictly better type than a `Map<String, String>` in this specific case because the former provides more comprehensive information and leaves less room for errors (and therefore error checking.) 

For example, consider a user program that receives `Map<String, String>` from a function. A careful programmer has to check the size of the map and that it contains promised key-value pairs. On the other hand, the struct type is self-documenting - there will be only 2 keys of the given type. WDYT?

Reviewer: I'm not sure.  I think that `Map<String,String>` and `Array<Struct<String,String>>` are equivalent types in some sense.  If I have a map, I ought to be able to iterate over it like an Array, and if given an Array, one will invariably want to do something that looks like a `map.get()`.

Author: I just realized that your argument is about using `Map<String,String>` as the return type rather than a replacement for the `Struct` in the array, i.e. `Array<Map<String, String>>`. Sorry about that! 

I agree that `Map<String, String>` has as much type information as `Array<Struct<String,String>>`, so it could be used instead. I really don't have any strong arguments one way or another. As a kinda weak argument, its neighbour function, `json_keys`, returns an array, so it is probably more consistent to return an array here as well assuming everything else is equal.

I don't have a strong opinion here, so if you think that `Map<String, String` is a better return type, let's discuss it with a wider audience in [this thread](https://github.com/confluentinc/ksql/pull/8550#discussion_r781239602) in the KLIP.

```

> Given a string, parses it as a JSON object and returns a ksqlDB array of structs containing 2 

Reviewer: Ok, so this may be likely out-of-scope for this ticket, but I'm wondering if there are future functions which would produce JSON which should be inverse of this.  

E.g., I think there's interest in struct->json functions once other issues are resolved.  Have we thought through the consistency issues there?

Author: `CAST` is arguably the inverse of this. It does work for the primitive types. Containers are not yet supported, unfortunately:

https://github.com/confluentinc/ksql/blob/f7c1334a8b97f52db60f2e2ca84230c31c7e9da0/ksqldb-execution/src/main/java/io/confluent/ksql/execution/codegen/helpers/CastEvaluator.java#L88-L96

Here is a test I tried to see how this will work out:

```sql
ksql> CREATE STREAM test (k STRING KEY, v INT)  WITH (kafka_topic='test_topic', value_format='JSON');
ksql> CREATE STREAM test (k STRING KEY, v INT)  WITH (kafka_topic='test_topic', value_format='JSON');

 Message
----------------
 Stream created
----------------
ksql> CREATE STREAM to_json AS SELECT k, to_json_STRING(v) AS JSON_v FROM test;

 Message
---------------------------------------
 Created query with ID CSAS_TO_JSON_17
---------------------------------------
ksql> insert into test (k, v) VALUES ('a', 1);
ksql> select * from to_json;
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|K                                                                              |JSON_V                                                                         |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|a                                                                              |[1,2,3]                                                                        |
|a                                                                              |1                                                                              |
```

__NOTE__: the `[1,2,3]` is a leftover from a previous test that I didn't cut out to show how does an unsupported cast look.

```sql
ksql> select json_v, cast(json_v as int) as back_to_int from to_json;
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|JSON_V                                                                         |BACK_TO_INT                                                                    |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|[1,2,3]                                                                        |null                                                                           |
|1                                                                              |1                                                                              |
```

```sql
to_json_string(val) -> String
```

Given any ksqlDB type returns the equivalent JSON string.

Examples:

**Primitives types**

```sql
to_json_string(1) // => "1"
to_json_string(15.3) // => "15.3"
to_json_string("abc") // => "\"abc\""
to_json_string(true) // => "true"
to_json_string(2021-10-11) // DATE type, => "\"2021-10-11\""
to_json_string(13:25) // TIME type, => "\"13:25:10\""
to_json_string(2021-06-31T12:18:39.446) // TIMESTAMP type, => "\"2021-06-31T12:18:39.446\""
to_json_string(NULL) // => "null"
```

**Compound types**

```sql
to_json_string(Array[1, 2, 3]) // => "[1, 2, 3]"
to_json_string(Struct{id=1,name=A}) // => "{\"id\": 1, \"name\": \"a\"}"
to_json_string(Map('c' := 2, 'd' := 4)) // => "{\"c\": 2, \"d\": 4}"
to_json_string(Array[Struct{json_key=1 json_value=Map('c' := 2, 'd' := true)}]) // => "[{\"json_key\": 1, \"json_value\": {\"c\": 2, \"d\": true}}]"
```

### `JSON_CONCAT`

Since: 0.25.0

```sql
json_concat(json_strings...) -> String
```

Given N strings, parse them as JSON values and return a string representing their concatenation.
Concatenation rules are identical to PostgreSQL's [|| operator](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/functions-json.html):

> * If all strings deserialize into JSON objects, then return an object with a union of the input key,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If all strings deserialize into JSON objects, return an object with a union of the input key,
```

>   taking values from the last object in the case of duplicates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If there are duplicate objects, take values from the last object.
```

> * If all strings deserialize into JSON arrays, then return the result of array concatenation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If all strings deserialize into JSON arrays, return the result of array concatenation.
```

> * If at least one of the deserialized values is not an object, then convert non-array inputs to a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If at least one of the deserialized values is not an object, convert non-array inputs to a
```

  single-element array and return the result of array concatenation.

> * If at least one of the input strings is `NULL` or can't be deserialized as JSON, then return `NULL`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If at least one of the input strings is `NULL` or can't be deserialized as JSON, return `NULL`.
```

> Akin to PostgreSQL's `||` operator, this function merges only top-level object keys or arrays.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similar to the PostgreSQL `||` operator, this function merges only top-level object keys or arrays.
```
